Saint Louis University (SLU) is a private Jesuit research university with campuses in St. Louis, Missouri, United States, and Madrid, Spain. Founded in 1818 by Louis William Valentine DuBourg, it is the oldest university west of the Mississippi River and the second-oldest Jesuit university in the United States. It is one of 28 member institutions of the Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities. The university is accredited by the North Central Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools.From 2019–2020, SLU had an enrollment of 12,546 students, with an additional 7,101 students enrolled in its 1818 Advanced College Credit Program. The student body included 8,072 undergraduate students and 4,474 graduate students that represents all 50 states and more than 82 foreign countries. The university is classified as a Research II university by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education.For more than 50 years, the university has maintained a campus in Madrid, Spain. The Madrid campus was the first freestanding campus operated by an American university in Europe and the first American institution to be recognized by Spain's higher education authority as an official foreign university.  The campus has 850 students, a faculty of 110, an average class size of 17 and a student-faculty ratio of 12:1.SLU's athletic teams compete in the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Division I and are a member of the Atlantic 10 Conference.

History
Saint Louis University traces its origins to the Saint Louis Academy, founded on November 16, 1818, by the Most Reverend Louis Guillaume Valentin Dubourg, Bishop of Louisiana and the Floridas, and placed under the charge of the Reverend François Niel and others of the secular clergy attached to the Saint Louis Cathedral. Its first location was in a private residence near the Mississippi River in an area now occupied by the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial within the Archdiocese of St. Louis.
Already having a two-story building for the 65 students using Bishop Dubourg's personal library of 8,000 volumes for its printed materials, the name Saint Louis Academy was changed in 1820 to Saint Louis College (while the secondary school division remained Saint Louis Academy, now known as St. Louis University High School). In 1827 Bishop Dubourg placed Saint Louis College in the care of the Society of Jesus. Not long after that, it received its charter as a university by act of the Missouri Legislature. In 1829 it moved to Washington Avenue and Ninth at the site of today's America's Center by The Dome at America's Center. In 1852 the university and its teaching priests were the subject of a viciously anti-Catholic novel, The Mysteries of St. Louis, written by newspaper editor Henry Boernstein whose popular paper, the Anzeiger des Westens was also a foe of the university.In 1867 after the American Civil War the University purchased "Lindell's Grove" to be the site of its current campus. Lindell's Grove was the site of the Civil War "Camp Jackson Affair". On May 10, 1861 U.S. Regulars and Federally enrolled Missouri Volunteers arrested the Missouri Volunteer Militia after the militia received a secret shipment of siege artillery, infantry weapons and ammunition from the Confederate Government. While the Militia was arrested without violence, angry local citizens rushed to the site, and rioting broke out, in which 28 people were killed. The Camp Jackson Affair lead to open conflict within the state, culminating with a successful Federal offensive in mid-June 1861 which expelled the state's pro-secession governor Claiborne Fox Jackson from the state capitol (Jefferson City). Jackson later led a Missouri Confederate government-in-exile, dying of cancer in Little Rock, Arkansas in 1862.
The first (and most iconic) building on campus, DuBourg Hall, began construction in 1888, and the college moved to its new location in 1889. St. Francis Xavier College Church moved to its current location with the completion of the lower church in 1884.  It was completed in 1898.
During the early 1940s, many local priests, especially the Jesuits, began to challenge the segregationist policies at the city's Catholic colleges and parochial schools. After the Pittsburgh Courier, an African-American newspaper, ran a 1944 exposé on St. Louis Archbishop John J. Glennon's interference with the admittance of a black student at the local Webster College, Fr. Claude Heithaus, SJ, professor of Classical Archaeology at Saint Louis University, delivered an angry homily accusing his own institution of immoral behavior in its segregation policies.  By summer of 1944, Saint Louis University had opened its doors to African Americans, after its president, Father Patrick Holloran, secured Glennon's reluctant approval.

Shift to majority lay board of trustees
In 1967, Saint Louis University became one of the first Catholic universities to increase give laypeople more power. Board chairman Fr. Paul Reinert, SJ, stepped aside to be replaced by layman Daniel Schlafly, and the board shifted to an 18 to 10 majority of laypeople. This was largely because of Horace Mann vs. the Board of Public Works of Maryland, a landmark case heard by the Maryland Court of Appeals, which declared unconstitutional grants to "largely sectarian" colleges. The Second Vatican Council has also been mentioned as a major influence on this decision for its increased focus on the laity, as well as the decreased recruitment of nuns and priests since the council.From 1985 to 1992 the Chairman of the Board of Trustees was William H. T. Bush (younger brother of former President George H. W. Bush). The younger Bush also taught classes at the school.Since the move to lay oversight, debate has erupted many times over how much influence the Roman Catholic Church should have on the affairs of the university. The decision by the University to sell its hospital to Tenet Healthcare Corp. in 1997 met much resistance by both local and national Church leaders, but went ahead as planned. In 2015, the Catholic SSM Health system assumed operation of Saint Louis University hospital. A $500 million rebuilding of the hospital and construction of a new ambulatory care center was completed in 2020.

Timeline
1818 – First institution of higher learning west of the Mississippi River
1832 – First graduate programs west of the Mississippi River
1836 – First medical school west of the Mississippi River
1843 – First in the West to open a school of law
1906 – First forward pass in football history
1908 – First women students admitted 
1910 – First business school west of the Mississippi River
1925 – First department of geophysics in the Western Hemisphere
1927 – First federally licensed school of aviation
1929 – First woman PhD graduate, Mother Marie Kernaghan
1944 – First university in Missouri to establish an official policy admitting African-American students, integrating its student body
1949 – First co-ed classes, in the College of Arts and Sciences 
1956 – Marguerite Hall, first women's hall of residence, opens. 
1959 – First dual credit program west of the Mississippi, named the 1818 Project and now known as the 1818 Advanced College Credit Program
1967 – First major Catholic institution in the world with an integrated lay and religious board of trustees
1972 – First human heart transplant in Missouri
2000 – First Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degree in aviation in the world awarded

Campus
SLU's campus in Midtown St. Louis consists of over 282 acres (114.1 ha) of land, with129 buildings on campus. The School of Law is located in downtown St. Louis in Scott Hall. 
For the 2018–19 school year, the university installed 2,300 Echo Dots, the hardware for Amazon's "smart assistant," Alexa, in students’ dorm rooms. SLU is the first college or university in the United States to bring an Amazon Alexa-enabled device into every student apartment or student residence hall room on the campus.

Libraries and museums
Saint Louis University has four libraries. Pius XII Memorial Library is the general academic library. It holds over 1 million books, 6,000 journal subscriptions, and 140 electronic databases. Recent renovations, include more seating and study areas, designated noise zones and the creation of an Academic Technology Commons. The Knights of Columbus Vatican Film Library holds a unique collection of microfilm focusing on the manuscripts housed in the Biblioteca Apostolica Vaticana. The Omer Poos Law Library houses the law collection and is within the School of Law. The Medical Center Library serves the health and medical community at SLU.
Every year, the Saint Louis University Library Associates present the St. Louis Literary Award to a distinguished figure in literature. Sir Salman Rushdie received the 2009 Literary Award. E.L. Doctorow received the 2008 Saint Louis Literary Award.
The University also has three museums, the Museum of Contemporary Religious Art (MOCRA), the Saint Louis University Museum of Art (SLUMA), and the historic  Samuel Cupples House and McNamee Gallery.

Clock tower
Built in 1993, Saint Louis University's clock tower closed off the campus from the remainder of West Pine Avenue. Its turret clock electrical system uses a pendulum to turn the clocks' hands, with a quartz crystal device to keep the time accurate. Fountains at the base are controlled by a sensor that adjusts the water's height depending on the prevailing winds. The surrounding plaza has become a center of campus life, host to social gatherings, protests, philanthropic events sponsored by the school's fraternities and sororities, and so forth.
In 2011, the clock tower and the area around it were renamed for a prominent alumnus as the Joseph G. Lipic Clock Tower Plaza.

Housing
Saint Louis has residence halls and student apartment space on campus.As part of the First Year Experience (FYE) program, students are required to live on campus for their first two years at SLU, unless they are a commuter from the St. Louis metropolitan area. The sophomore residency requirement caused controversy when first enacted during in the 2009-2010 school year, as the University lacked enough housing for all sophomores and upperclassmen who requested it. In the 2010-11 school year, the school announced the transfer of the Student Housing Scholarship (of $1,000 to $2,000) to Tuition Scholarship, which made off-campus housing more affordable and pursued by upperclassmen. Spring Hall and Grand Hall, built in 2016 and 2017 respectively, added nearly 1,000 beds for freshmen and sophomores in addition to a dining hall, more classrooms, and further office space for administrators.

Freshman Year Experience options
SLU has several Learning Communities (LCs), intended to allow freshmen and sophomores living on campus to surround themselves with like-minded or like-majored peers. As of 2020, over half of all SLU first-years choose to participate in a Learning Community.The Griesedieck Complex (also known as "Gries", pronounced "greez") has 16 stories of living space in its main building, as well as 9 additional floors of space attached on its west and east sides as Clemens Hall and Walsh Hall, respectively.Both halls were renovated and repainted (Walsh in 2019 and Clemens in 2020) to accommodate future larger freshman classes, and to house sophomores as needed.

Upperclassmen options
Sophomores participating in Greek Life can live in DeMattias Hall, the de facto community House. Next door is Marguerite Hall, with eight floors of suite-style two-occupancy dorm rooms. 
Grand Forest, the Village, and the Marchetti Towers are on-campus apartments for upperclassmen. The Marchetti Towers, just west of Grand Forest, are two 12-story towers that got a $3.8 million renovation in the summer of 2008.

Major building and renovation projects
During the past 20 years, the University has seen the modernization and construction of campus buildings as well as the revitalization of surrounding Midtown St. Louis. Some of the highlights of three decades at SLU include the investment of more than $840 million in improvements and expansions including the expansion of the Richard A. Chaifetz School of Business; construction of McDonnell Douglas Hall, home to Parks College of Engineering, Aviation and Technology; the Center for Advanced Dental Education; the Doisy College of Health Sciences Building and the expansion and renovation of the Busch Student Center. Part of this expansion was the closing of two blocks of West Pine Boulevard (the section between N. Vandeventer Ave. and N. Grand Blvd.) and two blocks of N. Spring Ave. (between Lindell Blvd. and Laclede Ave.), both public streets which the campus had previously expanded across, converting them into a pedestrian mall. Furthermore, the University completed construction of the $82 million Edward A. Doisy Research Center in 2007 and the on-campus Chaifetz Arena in 2008.

Edward A. Doisy Research Center
IN 2007, SLU completed a $67 million, 10-story research center connected to its Medical Campus Building, a green building named for Edward Adelbert Doisy, Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine laureate of 1943 and a long-time faculty member at SLU's medical school. The total cost was forecast to be around $80 million. It was dedicated on December 7, 2007.
In July 2010, the Edward A. Doisy Research Center became home to the Center for World Health and Medicine, a non-profit drug discovery group dedicated to developing therapies for orphan and neglected diseases.  In 2017, the organization closed due to lack of funding.

Saint Louis University School of Law
Saint Louis University School of Law, founded in 1843, is the oldest law school west of the Mississippi River. The students attend classes in Scott Hall, which is in downtown St. Louis. The Hall was previously renovated and for the first time, the Saint Louis University Law Library and Legal Clinics are housed under the same roof as the School. As of 2018, the dean was William P. Johnson.

Chaifetz Arena
The 2008 multi-purpose arena, built for $80.5 million, contains 10,600 seats for basketball, a training facility, state-of-the-art locker rooms, and a practice facility that can house 1,000 spectators. It is on the eastern end of campus, just north of I-64/US 40. The arena replaced Scottrade Center as the University's primary location for large events, notably Commencement celebrations and varsity sports. The arena is named for alumnus Dr. Richard Chaifetz, founder and CEO of ComPsych Corp., who gave $12 million to name it. The Arena was named on February 28, 2007, and dedicated on April 10, 2008.

COLLAB
In May 2019, Washington University in St. Louis and Saint Louis University launched the COLLAB at Cortex. The universities intend to use the 7,700-square-foot suite for various joint and separate projects, including training students in cybersecurity, entrepreneurship and other high-demand fields. COLLAB is also intended to forge deals with industry to turn research discoveries into products; find or train technology workers; and pursue geospatial research, data science, and health informatics.

Interdisciplinary Science and Engineering Building
In the fall of 2020, the University opened a new, 90,000-square-foot, three-story structure featuring "innovative teaching environments and flexible lab spaces." The building is expected to supplement bioinformatics, biology, biomedical engineering, chemistry, neuroscience and computer science courses that support all science, engineering, nursing and health science majors at SLU.

Academics and rankings
SLU offers 91 undergraduate majors and 83 graduate disciplines, along with programs adapted to working adults at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, including 25 completely online programs. Its average class size for undergraduates is 26 and the student-faculty ratio is 9:1.The University operates under one overall president but has the following schools with their own deans or directors: College of Arts and Sciences, College of Philosophy and Letters, Doisy College of Health Sciences, School of Medicine, School of Nursing, Center for Advanced Dental Education, College for Public Health and Social Justice, School of Social Work, Richard A. Chaifetz School of Business, School of Education, School of Law, Parks College of Engineering, Aviation and Technology, Campus in Madrid (Spain), School for Professional Studies, Center for Outcomes Research.

Athletics
The Saint Louis Billikens are the collegiate athletic varsity teams of Saint Louis University.  This NCAA Division I program has teams in soccer, basketball, baseball, softball, volleyball, swimming and diving, cross country, tennis, track and field, and field hockey. They compete in the Atlantic 10 Conference (where they are the westernmost member, and both the first member west of the Mississippi and in the Central Time Zone). The school has nationally recognized soccer programs for men and women.  In 2016 the women's basketball team made their second trip to the Women's National Invitation Tournament. The school has heavily invested in its on-campus athletic facilities in the past twenty years with the creation of Hermann Stadium and Chaifetz Arena. Chris May is the current director of athletics. Travis Ford, who took Oklahoma State to five NCAA tournaments in eight years, was hired as men's basketball coach in March 2016.The Saint Louis Billikens have a student-run fan club called the SLUnatics. This club supports all sporting Billiken athletic events focusing mostly on soccer and basketball. At Billiken basketball games, the SLUnatics have a large cheering section where they lead chants and cheers to engage the crowd. In order to encourage students to attend athletic events and be a part of SLUnatics, a program called Billiken Rewards was created.  It is a free program where students collect credits at designated events to earn prizes. Through five different prize levels, students can earn a variety of Billiken merchandise.

Student life
Campus Ministry
Campus Ministry presents a variety of activities and events noted on its website including widespread opportunities to attend Holy Mass and numerous retreat experiences. The department also collaborates with the Center for Service and Community Engagement.

Center for Service and Community Engagement
The Center, with six on its full-time staff, works with campus ministry and student organizations to foster community service. It also helps teachers in more than 80 courses to incorporate service-learning components and to devise community-based research projects. The Center cooperates with the thirteen student service-oriented organizations on campus.Students at SLU ranked 4th among the universities in the country in hours of community service in 2015, according to the Washington Monthly report. In line with the Jesuit objective of training men and women for others, the Center offers dozens of service opportunities to students. Some areas for volunteers to choose from include: adult education, hunger, law/public policy, mental health, etc.The Center offers numerous fairs and special events to assist students and staff to become more involved in service to the local community. These include a Community Service Fair involving over 70 nonprofits, a Social Justice Fair featuring dozens of activity and advocacy groups, and Make A Difference Day when the whole university community, past and present, disperses to "make a difference" at numerous work sites around the city. There are also three donation drives spread throughout the year: KidSmart, Blue Santa, and clothing and toiletries. And October and November find twenty-six different organizations around the city welcoming students to help in their one-day events. SLU was also "the first ever service site for the national nonprofit organization The Campus Kitchens Project". The university also offers the opportunity of the Federal Work Study program.Immersion experiences involve planning from weeks before the experience, a week-long experience, and reflection sessions after.  Locales currently visited include: St. Louis, MO, Mobile, AL (L’Arche). Wheeling, WV, Kermit, WV, Navajo Nation, AZ, Los Angeles, CA, El Paso, TX/Juarez, MX, and Nogales AZ / Nogales, MX (Kino Border Initiative). Student leadership training is also offered in conjunction with these experiences. Summer volunteer work at Camp Kesem is another initiative that trains student leaders.Cooperating organizations at the university include Interfaith Alliance and SLUCORE which promote interfaith activities, social justice awareness, and service in the community. Another program on social justice formation is an Ignatian Family Teach-in in Washington, D.C. – a weekend of learning and advocacy. Training for advocacy through the business school as well as summer and year-long programs are also offered.

Student organizations
Saint Louis University has over 240 student organizations that cover a variety of interests: student government, club sports, organizations focused on media and publications, performing arts, religion and volunteerism and service.
Alpha Kappa Psi (ΑΚΨ) – A co-educational professional business fraternity, it is the oldest and largest professional business fraternity to current date.
Alpha Phi Omega (APO) – A co-educational service fraternity that promotes the values of leadership, friendship, and service.  Being one of the largest chapters in the nation, SLU's chapter (founded in 1944) performed over 15,000 hours to the St. Louis community in the 2009–2010 academic year.
Delta Sigma Pi (DSP) – A co-ed professional business fraternity in the Richard A. Chaifetz School of Business that promotes the study of business, commerce, and economics. The fraternity hosts professional events, participates in community service, and attends national conferences on a regular basis.
Alpha Epsilon Delta (AED) – Pre-health honor society hosting medically oriented speakers and providing information, guidance, and resources to pre-medical and other pre-health students.
Parks Guard – Military drill team that competes in military drill competitions and conducts honor guard ceremonies for local events
Campus Kitchen – Program where student volunteers cook safe, unused food from campus dining facilities and deliver meals to low-income individuals and local community organizations.
Global Brigades – International student led organization that focuses on holistic and sustainable development working with global communities in need. Saint Louis University sends groups to Nicaragua, Panama, and Honduras.
The University News (or UNews) – Student-run news publication covering topics pertaining to the Saint Louis University (SLU) community since 1921.  Currently, the publication is provided in both online and in printed formats.

Greek life
Saint Louis has seven social fraternities and seven sororities/female fraternities on-campus.

Notable alumni
Academia
Robert Arp (Ph.D. 2004) – philosopher and author
George Hardin Brown – medieval literature
Jesse Grant Chapline – American educator and politician who founded distance learning college
Michael J. Garanzini S.J. (B.A. 1971) – President of Loyola University Chicago from 2001-2015; president of SLU student government association from 1969–1970.
Gary Gutting, American philosopher
Robert J. Henle, S.J. (B.A., M.A., PhL, STL) President of Georgetown University from 1969-1976
Joseph Koterski, S.J (M.A. 1980, Ph.D. 1982) – professor of philosophy and master of Queen's Court Residential College at Fordham University
Francis Leo Lawrence (B.A. 1959) – President of Rutgers University from 1990–2002.
William P. Leahy, S.J. (M.A. 1972, 1975) – President of Boston College since 1996.
J. Bernard Machen (D.D.S. 1968) – President of the University of Florida from 2004–2014.
Diana Natalicio – President of the University of Texas at El Paso
Walter J. Ong, S.J. (M.A. 1941) – Cultural and religious historian, philosopher, and lecturer.
Bernadette Gray-Little (Ph.D.) – Chancellor of the University of Kansas since 2009
Joseph L. Badaracco – John Shad Professor of Business Ethics at Harvard Business School

The Arts
Thomas P. Barnett (1886) – Prominent architect and American impressionist painter.
Charles Bosseron Chambers (1882–1964) painter, and illustrator.
Richard Dooling (B.A. 1976; J.D. 1987) – Lawyer and author of four novels: Critical Care; White Man's Grave; Brain Storm; Bet Your Life.
Robert Guillaume (Attended) – Stage and television actor (Benson, Soap).
James Gunn (B.A. 1992) – Film director ("Guardians of the Galaxy")(Slither), screenwriter (Dawn of the Dead, Scooby-Doo, Scooby-Doo 2: Monsters Unleashed), and novelist (The Toy Collector).
Andreas Katsulas (B.A.) – Actor, (The Fugitive, Babylon 5, Star Trek: The Next Generation).
David Merrick (J.D. 1937) – Broadway producer.
Dennis O'Neil (1939–2020) – Writer, Editor: Batman (comic book); Green Lantern/Green Arrow; The Question; Daredevil; Beware the Creeper.

Business
Richard Chaifetz (B.S. 1975) – Founder, Chairman, CEO of ComPsych Corporation ; Founder, Chairman of Chaifetz Group ; Naming donor of the Richard A. Chaifetz School of Business and Chaifetz Arena
Michael Bidwill (B.S. 1987) – President, Arizona Cardinals.
August Busch IV (B.S.; M.B.A.) – Former President and CEO of the Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.
Jim Kavanaugh (B.S.) – C.E.O. and co-founder of World Wide Technology
Mark Lamping (M.B.A.) – Former President of the St. Louis Cardinals.
Walden O'Dell (B.S.; M.S.) – CEO and Chairman of Diebold, Inc. (1999–2005).
Rex Sinquefield (B.A.) – Co-founder and co-chairman of Dimensional Fund Advisors; president of the Show-Me Institute.

Politics
David Barrett (M.S.W. 1956) – Premier of British Columbia, Canada (1972–1975)
Dana J. Boente (1954– ), General Counsel of the FBI and former Acting Attorney General of the United States
Enrique Bolaños (B.A. 1962) – former President of Nicaragua
Freeman Bosley Jr. (B.A. 1976; J.D. 1979) – St. Louis, Missouri's first African-American mayor
Jack W. Buechner (J.D. 1965) – U.S. Congressman, Missouri (1987–1991)
Joyce Aboussie – Political strategist and National Political Director to Congressman Dick Gephardt
Quico Canseco (B.A., J.D.) – U.S. Congressman, Texas (2011–2013)
Alfonso J. Cervantes – Forty-third mayor of the City of St. Louis (1965–1973)
Bill Clay (B.S. 1953) – U.S. Congressman, Missouri (1969–2001)
James F. Conway (B.S., M.B.A.) – Forty-fifth mayor of the City of St. Louis (1977–1981)
Kevin F. O'Malley (A.B. 1970, J.D. in 1973) – United States Ambassador to Ireland (2014–2017)
Joseph M. Darst – Forty-first mayor of the City of St. Louis (1949–1953)
Jason Grill – Representative in the Missouri House of Representatives, (2006–2010)
Robert Emmett Hannegan (1903–1949) (J.D. 1925) – Commissioner of U.S. Internal Revenue (1943–1945); Chairman, Democratic National Committee (1944–1947); U.S. Postmaster General (Truman administration, 1945–1947); President, St, Louis Cardinals (1947–1949)
Lester C. Hunt – Governor of Wyoming (1943–1949), U.S. Senator, Wyoming (1949–1954)
John M. Nations (J.D. 1988) – Mayor, Chesterfield, Missouri 2001
Mark Parkinson – Republican member of the Missouri House of Representatives
Erika Polmar – businesswoman and activist
William F. Quinn – First Governor of Hawaii (1959–1963)
Richard J. Rabbitt – (B.S. and L.l.b) – Speaker of Missouri House of Representatives
David Safavian (B.A.) – Chief of Staff, General Services Administration (2002–2003)
Eric S. Schmitt (J.D. 2000) – Attorney General of Missouri
Francis Slay (J.D. 1980) – Forty-ninth mayor of the City of St. Louis
Steve Stenger – Democratic politician and former County Executive of St. Louis County
James F. Strother – Virginia House of Delegate (1840–1851), Speaker of the Virginia House (1851), U.S. Congressman, Virginia (1851–1853)
John B. Sullivan – U.S. Congressman, Missouri (1941–1943, 1945–1947, 1949–1951)
Joseph P. Teasdale (J.D.) – Governor of Missouri (1977–1981)
Harold L. Volkmer – U.S. Congressman, Missouri (1977–1997)
Stephen Webber – Democratic member of the Missouri House of Representatives
William R. Haine – Member of the Illinois Senate

Science
Jan Garavaglia, MD – Star of Dr. G.: Medical Examiner.
Gene Kranz (B.S. 1954) – Lead NASA flight director during the Apollo 11 moon landing and leader of the Apollo 13 rescue mission.
Nathan H. Lents (B.S., 1999; Ph.D., 2004) Scientist and Author.
Richard G. Thomas – (B.S. 1952) - (Aeronautical Engineering) Northrop test pilot – Tacit Blue; Secret Project/Area 51, F-5 Spin Tests -Edwards AFB, California

Sports
Andy Benes – All-Star Major League Baseball right-handed pitcher.  Played 14 years in Major League Baseball, from 1989 to 2002, and with four different teams: the San Diego Padres, the Seattle Mariners, the St. Louis Cardinals and the Arizona Diamondbacks. Benes joined SLU as a student after his professional baseball career ended.
Anthony Bonner – SLU's all-time leading scorer in men's basketball and played six seasons in the NBA for the Sacramento Kings, New York Knicks and the Orlando Magic.
Dick Boushka – Basketball All-American in 1954–55, Olympic gold medalist in 1956. Drafted by the Minneapolis Lakers.
Brad Davis – attended but never graduated, was drafted after his sophomore year into the MLS by the MetroStars, plays for Sporting Kansas City.
Bob Ferry – Basketball All-American in 1958–59, enjoyed a ten-year career in the NBA with the St. Louis Hawks, Detroit Pistons, and Baltimore Bullets. Former assistant coach and general manager of the Baltimore Bullets; NBA Executive of the Year in 1979 and 1982.
Larry Hughes – NBA basketball player, attended but never graduated, was drafted after his freshman year into the NBA by the Philadelphia 76ers.
Ty Keough – Prominent amateur and professional soccer player and college coach; broadcaster with TNT, ESPN, and ABC
Pat Leahy – Placekicker for the New York Jets from 1974 to 1990, played soccer at SLU
Ed Macauley (1949) – NBA Hall of Famer
Brian McBride – First American to score in more than one FIFA World Cup tournament, doing so once in 1998 and twice in 2002. He is also SLU's all-time leading goal-scorer and held the freshman scoring record until 2003, when he was surpassed by Vedad Ibišević.
George Michael – Emmy-winning sportscaster, creator and host of The George Michael Sports Machine
Tim Ream – Current defender for Fulham FC and United States men's national soccer team
Marcus Relphorde (born 1988) - basketball player in the Israeli National League
Mike Shanahan – former owner of St. Louis Blues (1986–95), soccer teams won national championships (1959, 1960)
Jerry Trupiano – Former Boston Red Sox radio broadcaster
H Waldman (born 1972) - American-Israeli basketball player; Israeli Basketball Premier League

Miscellaneous
Michael G. Brandt – Air National Guard Brigadier General.
Thomas Anthony Dooley – Humanitarian who worked in Southeastern Asia; author of Deliver Us from Evil, The Edge of Tomorrow, and The Night They Burned the Mountain.
Walter Halloran S.J. - assisted in notable exorcism that inspired The Exorcist (novel).
John Kaiser – M.H.M. Mill Hill Missionary died under suspicious circumstances while serving in Kenya. Received an Award for Distinguished Service in the Promotion of Human Rights from the Law Society of Kenya prior to his death.
Bradbury Robinson – Threw the first legal forward pass in football history for SLU in 1906. Captained SLU's baseball and track teams. Practiced surgery at the Mayo Clinic (1908–1910) and served on the staff of Surgeon General Hugh S. Cumming (1920–1926). Twice elected mayor of St. Louis, Michigan (1931 and 1937).
Richard Stika – Third Bishop of the Diocese of Knoxville.
John Stowe, O.F.M. Conv. - Bishop of the Diocese of Lexington in Kentucky
Sister Rose Thering O.P. (Ph.D. 1961) – Dominican nun whose campaign against anti-Semitism in Catholic textbooks is the subject of the Oscar-nominated 39-minute documentary film directed by Oren Jacoby, Sister Rose's Passion.
Bobby Wilks – First African American Coast Guard aviator, the first African American to reach the rank of captain in the Coast Guard and the first African American to command a Coast Guard air station.
Edward Rice - Seventh Bishop of the Diocese of Springfield - Cape Girardeau.

Notable faculty
Past
Raymond J. Bishop - Priest involved in notable exorcism that inspired The Exorcist (novel).
Vernon Bourke (1931–1975) – philosopher and author, considered an authority on Thomistic moral philosophy; first hockey coach of the university.
Edward Adelbert Doisy, (November 3, 1893 – October 23, 1986) – biochemist, awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1943 with Henrik Dam for their discovery of vitamin K and its chemical structure.
Timothy Michael Cardinal Dolan, served as an adjunct professor of theology.
Robert J. Henle, S.J. - professor of philosophy and leading figure in the revival of Thomistic philosophy. He was elected a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Prior to and following his appointment as president of Georgetown University (1969-1976), he served as a professor and lecturer in the College of Arts and Sciences, and Saint Louis University School of Law
James B. Macelwane – pioneering seismologist
Marshall McLuhan (1937–1944) – well known for coining the expressions "the medium is the message" and the "global village".
Kurt Schuschnigg (1948–1967) – Chancellor of Austria from 1934 to 1938. An ally of Mussolini who advocated for continued Austrian national sovereignty as opposed to annexation or anschluss by the Third Reich and for advocating the conservative, authoritarian and pro-Catholic state established by assassinated chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss (often referred to as austrofascism), Schuschnigg is known for his suppression of political opposition in Austria, including the communists, social democrats and Nazis. He was pressured to resign by Hitler during his country's annexation by Germany and was interned by the Nazis in the Dachau concentration camp.
Thomas Shippey – author and former faculty member of Oxford University, where he taught Old English. Widely considered one of the leading academic scholars of J. R. R. Tolkien.

Present
George W. Draper III – Chief Justice of the Missouri Supreme Court
Clarence H. Miller – Emeritus Professor of English known for his contributions to the study of Renaissance literature, including his translations of St. Thomas More's Utopia and Erasmus's Praise of Folly.
Thomas F. Madden – historian of Venice and the crusades; author of The New Concise History of the Crusades and Enrico Dandolo and the Rise of Venice
Jerome Katz – Coleman Professor of Entrepreneurship; founder of the Billiken Angels Network.
Eric S. Schmitt – Attorney General of Missouri
Eleonore Stump - Robert J. Henle Professor of Philosophy; known for her work in Thomistic philosophy, study of the problem of evil, and contributions to the developing discipline of analytic theology.

School presidents
The university's current president is Fred Pestello.

References
External links
Official website
Saint Louis Athletics website